Follow @RollingStone
Stevie Wonder, Tom Petty, Lorde Lead New Orleans Jazz Fest
News
Video
Music
Politics
TV
Movies
Sports
Gaming
RS Country
More
News
Video
Music
Politics
TV
Movies
Sports
Gaming
RS Country
Lists
Culture
Galleries
Long Reads
Interviews
Artists
Album Reviews
Ram Report
Movie Reviews
Coverwall
Live Reviews
50th Anniversary
Podcasts
Subscribe
Trending
KKK Leader Allegedly Killed by Wife and Stepson: What We...
The Anarchists vs. the Islamic State
Why Won't the Feds Go After Trump for His Huge Breach of...
2017 Oscars Predictions: Who Should Win, Who Will Win
Stevie Wonder, Tom Petty, Lorde Lead New Orleans Jazz Fest
Maroon 5, Wilco, Kings of Leon, Alabama Shakes, Snoop Dogg and Usher with the Roots highlight Big Easy's massive two-weekend music festival
Stevie Wonder, Tom Petty, Maroon 5, Kings of Leon, Lorde, Wilco and Usher with the Roots highlight this year's New Orleans Jazz & Heritage Festival.
By
Daniel Kreps
January 27, 2017
More News
See My Morning Jacket Cover Prince Classics at Jazz Fest
The Soul of New Orleans Jazz Fest Is Alive and Well
Buckwheat Zydeco, Famed Bandleader and Accordionist, Dead at 68
All Stories
Stevie Wonder, Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers, Maroon 5, Kings of Leon, Lorde and Usher with the Roots highlight this year&apos;s
New Orleans Jazz & Heritage Festival
, taking place over a pair of weekends in the Big Easy this spring.
Related
Prince, Allen Toussaint Tributes Mark Bittersweet Jazz Fest
Performers honor recent losses with grace, passion at eclectic fest's opening weekend
Wilco, Dave Matthews & Tim Reynolds, Alabama Shakes, Snoop Dogg, Nas, Leon Bridges and Pitbull are also among the 500 artists that will perform at the New Orleans Fair Grounds Race Course on April 28th to 30th or May 4th through 7th.
The eclectic lineup also features Earth, Wind & Fire, country stars (Margo Price, Darius Rucker), legendary guitarists (Buddy Guy, George Benson), singers like Patti LaBelle, Harry Connick Jr., Elle King and Meghan Trainor and jam-leaning bands like the Trey Anastasio Band and Widespread Panic.
A large portion of the mammoth lineup is also devoted to New Orleans staples like Dr. John, the Meters, Irma Thomas, Trombone Shorty & Orleans Avenue, Aaron Neville, Jon Batiste and Stay Human, Big Freedia and a tribute to the late Buckwheat Zydeco.
Jazz Fest will also feature a special program dedicated to the music of Cuba, with nearly a dozen Cuban artists slated to perform at the festival. Tickets for New Orleans Jazz Fest are now available; check out
the festival&apos;s site
for early bird ticket information and schedule breakdown.
More News
See My Morning Jacket Cover Prince Classics at Jazz Fest
The Soul of New Orleans Jazz Fest Is Alive and Well
Buckwheat Zydeco, Famed Bandleader and Accordionist, Dead at 68
All Stories
Topics:
New Orleans Jazz Fest
Don’t Miss a Story
Sign up for our newsletter to receive breaking news directly in your inbox.
Please enable javascript to sign up for the newsletter.
We may use your e-mail address to send you the newsletter and offers that may interest you, on behalf of Rolling Stone and its partners. For more information please read our
Privacy Policy
How we use your email address
Trending
Ranked on a scale from 1 to 10, the trending score reflects the number of users reading a story in real time.
What is this?
KKK Leader Allegedly Killed by Wife and...
9.3
The Anarchists vs. the Islamic State
8.8
Why Won't the Feds Go After Trump for His...
8.0
2017 Oscars Predictions: Who Should Win, Who...
7.2
Shania Twain on Learning to Sing Again, Dark...
6.5
© Rolling Stone 2017
Digital Edition
Subscribe
Give a Gift
Coverwall
Contact
Privacy Policy
Your Privacy Rights
Your Ad Choices
Terms of Use
Customer Service
Advertise
Sitemap
