<![endif]
the "no-js" class is for Modernizr.
Always force latest IE rendering engine (even in intranet) & Chrome Frame
Fav icons/tiles
Meta
Sitewide styles go here.
Optimizely
[if lt IE 9]>
        <script src="//html5shiv.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/html5.js"></script>
        <script src="https://cdn.theatlantic.com/assets/static/a/common/js/ie8.polyfills.ba3cdde2f960.js"></script
    <![endif]
Skip to content
The Atlantic
Popular
Latest
Sections
Sections
Politics & Policy
Culture
Business
Science
Technology
Health
Education
U.S.
Global
News
Notes
Photo
Video
Writers
Projects
Next America
Magazine
Magazine
Current issue
All issues
Manage subscription
Subscribe
More
More
Create account
Your account
Sign in
Sign out
Newsletters
Events
Books
Shop
View all
Subscribe
mobile
Search
Search
Quick Links
James Fallows
Ta Nehisi Coates
Manage subscription
desktop
Quick Links
James Fallows
Ta Nehisi Coates
Manage subscription
Google Microdata
Mobile only ad
Article "Cover"
Escape to the Future With Missy Elliott and Jamiroquai
Two legends of music-video history are back with sci-fi visions.
Google Metadata
Missy Elliott
Most Popular
These 23 Republicans Passed on a Chance to Get Trump's Tax Returns
Conor Friedersdorf
9:28 AM ET
Are Deep-State Leakers Defending Democracy or Corroding It?
David A. Graham
1:29 PM ET
What Happens Next Is Up to Republicans
David Frum
2:20 PM ET
Why the Puzder Nomination Fell Apart
Alana Semuels
3:40 PM ET
American Institutions Are Pushing Back Against Trump
Peter Beinart
4:00 AM ET
Spencer Kornhaber
Jan 27, 2017
Culture
Share
Tweet
…
LinkedIn
Email
Print
Text Size
Two icons of the music-video format have returned this Friday with light-up headpieces and underground post-apocalypse vibes and pretty catchy music. Do not call Missy Elliott and Jamiroquai nostalgia acts—they’re offering colorful and imaginative escape to the future.
From the garbage-bag onesie of “The Rain (Supa Dupa Fly)” to the bee facial of “Work It” to the
Terminator
goop of “She’s a Bitch” to the boogying marionettes of 2015’s “WTF (Where They From),” Missy Elliott’s knack for memorable music has been equalled by her knack for insane images. Today brings not only a visual smorgasbord in the video for the new song “I’m Better,” but
also a trailer
for a forthcoming documentary about the rapper that confirms her televisual excellence hasn’t happened by accident. It opens with her saying, “It’s never just making a hot record—I can do that in my sleep. But visually I have to see what I’m going to do with that record when I perform it.”
The “I’m Better” video, aided by her longtime directorial collaborator Dave Meyers and the producer Lamb, features dancers suspended from the back as if they’re puppets, wearing glowing riot masks on their heads, and grooving in white workout gear like cultists doing aerobics. The industrial setting they’re in at the start of the clip turns out to have a liquid portal in the floor; everyone falls through, and suddenly it’s an underwater performance. The song is minimal, tense, and in step with the trap sound ruling hip hop right now. The dancing accentuates the uneasy mood: “I didn’t want them to hit every beat of the track,” Elliott
told
Fact
. “I wanted it to be art.” She raps that her man watches her like he watches
Scandal
, which is to say totally caught up—a relatable feeling for the viewer.
Less abstract but similarly heady is the new clip from the British funk act Jamiroquai. The band’s 1996 song “Virtual Insanity” made for one of the most famous music videos ever, with frontman Jay Kay hanging out in a room whose floors moved around him, a spectacle that scrambled the viewers’ expectations about gravity and home decor. That clip and others, such as the one for 1999’s “Canned Heat,” also demonstrated Kay really likes to wear things on his head.
For the new song “Automaton,” the advanced single to the band’s first album since 2010, Kay’s hat fetish remains, as does the interest in science fiction and things moving that aren’t supposed to move. The video opens with a mushroom cloud—
topical!
—and then introduces Kay wearing a prehensile, light-up headpiece. He explores human ruins, first underground and then above ground, and reports back his findings to some researcher-type. His cyborg-scout get-up is cool in a campy way, and it fits right in with the song’s sound: disco rock with heavy amounts of vocal manipulation à la Daft Punk.
Both Elliott’s and Jamiroquai’s videos might be seen as timely thanks to their
dystopian vibes
. But the creativity on display is exactly of the sort that both artists have shown throughout their careers. If there’s a takeaway message, it’s bedazzled onto one of Missy Elliott’s excellent outfits: “Save the Humans.”
Share
Tweet
Comments
Latest Video
What Does a Reformed Racist Look Like?
In a short documentary, a former KKK leader reconnects with the African American woman who helped raise him.
Nadine Ajaka
4:56 PM ET
About the Author
Spencer Kornhaber
is a staff writer at
The Atlantic
covering pop culture and music.
Twitter
Email
Most Popular
Presented by
Kevin Lemarque / Reuters
These 23 Republicans Passed on a Chance to Get Trump's Tax Returns
Conor Friedersdorf
Congress has a duty to make sure President Trump isn’t selling out the United States. These legislators are in more active dereliction of that duty than most.
More than 800,000 Americans have
signed a petition
demanding the release of Donald Trump’s tax returns. Polls show that a majority of the country wants to see the documents.
On April 15, tens of thousands plan to take to the streets in protest of the president’s refusal to release his tax returns to the public. Some worry Trump is hiding financial ties to Russia. Others want to understand all the conflicts of interest that flow from his failure to divest from his business interests. Twenty thousand people
say they’re going
to a Los Angeles protest. Eleven thousand are
signed up to attend
in New York City. Folks will
protest
in Boise, Indianapolis, St. Louis, Raleigh, Pittsburgh, Knoxville, Salt Lake City, and other municipalities throughout the U.S.
Continue Reading
Evan Vucci / AP
Are Deep-State Leakers Defending Democracy or Corroding It?
David A. Graham
Is the gusher of leaks about the White House the work of bureaucrats who want to undermine the president? And if so, is that a good or bad thing?
To paraphrase presidential candidate Donald Trump,
somebody’s doing the leaking
. But who, and why, and does it represent a defense of American democratic norms or a death knell for them?
There’s no shortage of theories. Some of the damaging leaks are emerging from the White House, as part of internecine warfare between rival factions. But the more consequential ones, including the revelations that forced the resignation of National Security Adviser Michael Flynn Monday night, have hinged on information from the intelligence community.
Trump has tried to change the focus away from the substance of the leaks and to their provenance. On Tuesday, he tweeted this:
The real story here is why are there so many illegal leaks coming out of Washington? Will these leaks be happening as I deal on N.Korea etc?
— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump)
February 14, 2017
Continue Reading
J. Scott Applewhite / AP
What Happens Next Is Up to Republicans
David Frum
If they don’t act decisively now, when will they?
The immediate question raised by
the latest information
published by
The New York Times
is: What next? Will Congress investigate? Will it subpoena records, including the tax records that may clarify the financial obligations—if any—Donald Trump has to Russia? And since Congress is so dominated by one party, that first question raises a follow-up and more specific question: What will the leaders of the Republican Party in Congress do?
In the first shock of the news about the Trump team’s communications with Russian spies, Republican leaders are expressing revulsion and resolve. They expressed similar emotions after the shock of the “grab them by the pussy” recording. Then they collapsed.
Remember, the Republican rank-and-file remain much more intensely committed to Trump and the presidency than to their leaders in Congress. Fox News and talk radio are busily concocting rationalizations and distractions. Donald Trump will still be president a week from now—and he has many tools by which to retaliate against his perceived opponents in the intelligence services. Unless Congress revolts against him, he could well prevail, destroying the integrity and independence of law enforcement and counter-intelligence in the process.
Continue Reading
Carolyn Kaster / AP
Why the Puzder Nomination Fell Apart
Alana Semuels
The fast-food mogul faced opposition from both liberal and conservative groups, though for different reasons.
Updated on February 15, 2017 at 4:03 p.m. E.T.
In the end, it wasn’t Andy Puzder’s track record on labor that tanked his bid for the job of labor secretary. Liberals were always unhappy with the Puzder nomination—his history of hostility toward labor regulations made him an unacceptable choice for the head of the agency tasked with enforcing the laws that protect workers, they felt. But what changed in recent days is an emerging focus not on Puzder’s professional history, but on his home life. And it was the liabilities there that ultimately made it hard for more moderate Republicans—particularly women—to support him.
In divorce papers from three decades ago, Puzder’s ex-wife alleged that he abused her, and she once appeared in disguise on the Oprah Winfrey show to discuss those allegations (which Puzder denied). She has since retracted the allegations, but the tape of her visit to Oprah in 1990 was
reportedly
shown to senators this week. And earlier this month, Puzder
admitted
that he had employed an undocumented worker as a housekeeper for a few years, a fact that was at odds with Trump’s commitment to cracking down on undocumented workers. He had also failed to pay the required taxes at the time. On Wednesday, the conservative publication
The National Review
published an
editorial
opposing Puzder’s confirmation both because of the housekeeper revelations and because of his past support for immigration reform.  “The case for his confirmation has diminished to the point of disappearing,” the magazine argued.
Continue Reading
Carlos Barria / Reuters
American Institutions Are Pushing Back Against Trump
Peter Beinart
The bureaucracy, the press, the judiciary, and the public are not only pushing back, they’re having some success.
Nothing Donald Trump has done since becoming President is particularly surprising. The attacks on judges and the press, the clash of civilizations worldview, the ignorance of public policy, the blurring of government service and private gain, the endless lying, the incompetence, the chaos—all were vividly foreshadowed during the campaign. The Republican-led  Congress’ refusal to challenge Trump was foreseeable too. The number of Republicans willing to oppose Trump’s agenda pretty much equals the number who refused to endorse him once he became the GOP nominee.
Less predictable has been the response of other elements of the American political system: The bureaucracy, the press, the judiciary and the public. Here, the news is good. So far, they’re not only pushing back, they’re having some success.
Continue Reading
Carolyn Kaster / AP
The Nationalist Right Is Coming for Reince Priebus
Rosie Gray
Furious over the ouster of Mike Flynn, Trump loyalists in the right-wing media are blaming the former RNC chair for the administration's setbacks.
Breitbart News
has a target in its crosshairs following the departure of former National Security Adviser Mike Flynn from the White House in a cascade of scandal over his contacts with the Russian government: White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus.
Targeting Priebus, who leads the faction of Trump aides that is composed of experienced establishment political hands, is really just a stand-in for a larger conflict about the future of Trumpism in the White House.
Breitbart News
is treating Flynn’s ouster as the first salvo in a war against those in the administration they deem insufficiently loyal to Trump. Backing up
Breitbart
are legions of other Trump loyalists in the right-wing media sphere. And their angry reaction to Flynn’s exit signals the unpopularity of the move with a vocal segment of Trump’s base.
Continue Reading
Jeffrey Smith
How to Build an Autocracy
David Frum
The preconditions are present in the U.S. today. Here’s the playbook Donald Trump could use to set the country down a path toward illiberalism.
It’s 2021, and President Donald Trump
will shortly be sworn in for his second term. The 45th president has visibly aged over the past four years. He rests heavily on his daughter Ivanka’s arm during his infrequent public appearances.
Fortunately for him, he did not need to campaign hard for reelection. His has been a popular presidency: Big tax cuts, big spending, and big deficits have worked their familiar expansive magic. Wages have grown strongly in the Trump years, especially for men without a college degree, even if rising inflation is beginning to bite into the gains. The president’s supporters credit his restrictive immigration policies and his TrumpWorks infrastructure program.
Listen to the audio version of this article:
Download the Audm app
for your iPhone to listen to more titles.
Continue Reading
Mike Segar / Reuters
Scenes From the 2017 Westminster Dog Show
Alan Taylor
A total of 2,908 dogs were entered in this year’s 141st annual Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show, consisting of 200 different breeds or varieties.
A total of 2,908 dogs were entered in this year’s 141st annual Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show, consisting of 200 different breeds or varieties. “Best in Show” was awarded yesterday to a German Shepherd named Rumor. Below are images from the two-day competition held in New York City’s Madison Square Garden.
Continue Reading
Mike Segar / Reuters
Why Flynn's Resignation Matters
David Frum
A senior American official was compromised by his relationship with a foreign government. Who else has ties to the Russian state?
Stop talking about the Logan Act.
It was not the violation of this antique and ignored piece of anti-Jacobin legislation that has touched off the biggest foreign-policy scandal since Watergate.
Nobody would care if an incoming national security adviser had confidential conversations with an ambassador of a hostile foreign government before Inauguration Day, if it were believed that the conversations served a legitimate and disinterested public purpose.
But that is exactly what is doubted in this case.
To put the story in simplest terms:
1) Russian spies hacked Democratic Party communications in order to help elect Donald Trump.
2) Donald Trump welcomed the help, used it, publicly solicited more of it—and was then elected president of the United States.
Continue Reading
© Gabriel Barathieu / UPY 2017
The 2017 Underwater Photographer of the Year Contest
Alan Taylor
The organizers of the Underwater Photographer of the Year have just announced their winning photos for 2017.
Organizers of the
Underwater Photographer of the Year Contest
have just announced their winning photos for 2017. The winner Gabriel Barathieu beat entrants from 67 different countries with his portrait of an octopus in the lagoon of the island of Mayotte. Prizes and commendations were also handed out in a number of categories, including Wide Angle, Macro, Wrecks, Behavior, Up & Coming, and, in British waters, Wide Angle, Compact, and Macro shots. UPY has been kind enough to share some of this year's honorees with us below. Captions written by the photographers.
Continue Reading
Can It Happen Here?
Daniel Lombroso
and
David Frum
David Frum on Donald Trump's authoritarian tendencies
Watch Video
Ruth Bader Ginsburg on the Perspective That Comes With Motherhood
Daniel Lombroso
,
Jackie Lay
, and
Ryan Park
In an animated interview, the Supreme Court justice describes her early career.
Watch Video
The Crippling Fear of Everlasting Life
Caitlin Cadieux
and
Daniel Lombroso
While many dream of an afterlife, people with apeirophobia are terrified of eternal existence.
Watch Video
More Popular Stories
Show Comments
Home
Share
Tweet
Next story in
Culture
Subscribe
Get 10 issues a year and save 65% off the cover price.
State
Alabama
Alaska
Alberta
American Samoa
APO/FPO-Africa
APO/FPO-Canada
APO/FPO-Europe
APO/FPO-Middle East
APO/FPO-Americas
APO/FPO-Pacific
Arizona
Arkansas
British Columbia
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
District of Columbia
Florida
Georgia
Guam
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Manitoba
Marshall Islands
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Micronesia
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Brunswick
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
Newfoundland
Newfoundland-Labrador
North Carolina
North Dakota
Northern Mariana Isles
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ohio
Oklahoma
Ontario
Oregon
Palau
Pennsylvania
Prince Edward Island
Puerto Rico
Quebec
Quebec
Rhode Island
Saskatchewan
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virgin Islands
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming
Yukon Territories
Fraud Alert regarding The Atlantic
Newsletters
+
The Atlantic
The Atlantic
Daily
This Week
This Month
New Photo Galleries
Top Videos This Week
Politics & Policy Daily
CityLab
Today’s Top Stories
This Week's Most Popular Stories
I want to receive updates from partners and sponsors.
Follow
+
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Tumblr
Pinterest
RSS
App Store
About
+
Masthead
FAQ
Press
Jobs
Shop
Books
Emporium
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Advertise
Advertising Guidelines
Terms and Conditions
Manage Subscription
Responsible Disclosure
Site Map
Copyright © 2017 by The Atlantic Monthly Group. All Rights Reserved.
xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?
svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd"
Close
BEGIN: Welcome Screens
Skip to article in
Skip Ad >
End welcome screen
Close
/DO NOT REMOVE/
End SiteCatalyst code version: H.23.6.
Omniture noscript counter
/DO NOT REMOVE/
Ads.
Media.net and GPT Script
Analytics, etc.
Begin comScore Tag
End comScore Tag
START Nielsen Online SiteCensus V6.0
COPYRIGHT 2012 Nielsen Online
END Nielsen Online SiteCensus V6.0
Google Analytics
End Google Analytics
Facebook Tracking Pixel
End Facebook Tracking Pixel
BEGIN Krux Control Tag
END Krux Controltag
Simplereach
Quantcast Tag
End Quantcast Tag
Load social buttons last, so we don't care if they hang
Twitter
2017-02-15T17:15:14.996511
PAGE_COMPLETED
