Cheeky Radio
Home
Home
Status:
OnLine
LESS Adverts, LESS Presenters, MORE Music.
If you always do what you've always done... You always get what you have always gotten. It's time to break the habit and try something new!
​Welcome to Cheeky Radio where we do it different.
About Cheeky Radio
Cheeky Radio is a UK (Essex) based internet station streaming 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The music policy is Soul, RnB Jazz-Funk, Soulful House, Reggae, Jazzy House, Jazz and Nu Jazz.
Cheeky radio started broadcasting in October 2014 as a private music stream to a few listeners who wanted something different. In January 2017 Cheeky Radio became a public broadcast for everybody to enjoy. The station continues to cater for those who want to expand their knowledge and enjoy music beyond the Anthems and 80s weekender tracks.
Watch out for our selection of mixes created exclusively for Cheeky Radio by some of the worlds greatest mixers. We also have some exclusive remixes of tracks produced for Cheeky Radio by some amazing DJs.
​Cheeky Fact:
Cheeky Radio plays a stream of music randomly selected from over 4000 tracks. Our average listener is tuned in for 30 hours a week across 7 days. It means you should only hear a track twice every couple of months. Now, as its your station and if we are playing a track you dont like, let us know and we will review it with a view to removing it.
Cheeky Fact:
We broadcast from our main studio in Essex (UK) If that studio should lose its power or internet connection, our sister studio in London automaticly takes over... In the very unlikely event that loses power or internet, we have a further stream that automaticly takes over in Canada. This means you can listen 24/7 for 365 days of the year without every missing out.
Cheeky Fact:
Some boring technical bits... We only use 320kbs tracks and, we stream at 128kbs. This is CD quality and better than FM Radio to 196 countries around the world. Broadcasting from 3 locations,  Essex, London and Canada we aim to deliver muisc for 100% of the year with no dead air EVER!
Listen to Cheeky Radio
You can listen to Cheeky Radio in a way to best suit you.
TuneIn Radio (Below) or download the Tunein app for your mobile phone/tablet etc. Most modern smart TVs now include a radio app, just search for Cheeky Radio. We plan to broadcast across many other platforms including our very own mobile phone app in the coming months.
Cheeky Shows
Events 2017
Radio Presenters Wanted
Have you got what it takes?
In 2017 Cheeky Radio will start broadcasting live and pre recorded shows. If you think you have what it takes, get in touch. With our very ambitious and focused plans you will be part of a great team that everyone is talking about.
Radio Experience Days
Coming in 2017 Cheeky Radio will be running have-a-go days for budding presenters within our working studio. Here you will get to play music of your own choice (Or we can provide it if you prefer) and produce your own 1 hour show to take away with you on CD and memory stick. Produced by our talented production team you will have your very own personalised jingle to use during your show. This is a great oppurtunity to see if radio presenting is for you or just a day out for a bit of fun.
Get in touch
We love our listen to interact with us here at Cheeky Radio:
email:
studio@cheekyradio.co.uk
txt studio from UK: 07856 395737
txt studio outside UK: (+44) 7856 395737
FaceBook:
www.facebook.com/cheekyradio/
​Twitter: @cheekyradio
Tweets by cheekyradio
Home
Copyright © 2016 Cheeky Radio
Start of StatCounter Code for Weebly
End of StatCounter Code for Weebly
Quantcast Tag
End Quantcast tag
✕
