<![endif]
the "no-js" class is for Modernizr.
Always force latest IE rendering engine (even in intranet) & Chrome Frame
Fav icons/tiles
Meta
Sitewide styles go here.
Optimizely
Skip to content
The Atlantic
Popular
Latest
Sections
Sections
Politics & Policy
Culture
Business
Science
Technology
Health
Education
U.S.
Global
News
Notes
Photo
Video
Events
Writers
Projects
Magazine
Magazine
Current issue
All issues
Manage subscription
Subscribe
More
More
Create account
Your account
Sign in
Sign out
Newsletters
Life Timeline
Events
Books
Shop
View all
Subscribe
mobile
Search
Search
Quick Links
James Fallows
Ta Nehisi Coates
Manage subscription
desktop
Quick Links
James Fallows
Ta Nehisi Coates
Manage subscription
Google Microdata
Mobile only ad
Article "Cover"
Escape to the Future With Missy Elliott and Jamiroquai
Two legends of music-video history are back with sci-fi visions.
Google Metadata
Missy Elliott
Most Popular
Is Trump's Campaign Act Wearing Thin?
David A. Graham
5:04 PM ET
Why the Phrase 'Late Capitalism' Is Suddenly Everywhere
Annie Lowrey
3:23 PM ET
Why There Was a Civil War
Yoni Appelbaum
12:32 PM ET
Who's Really in Charge of the United States Government?
David Frum
6:25 PM ET
How Two Mississippi College Students Fell in Love and Decided to Join a Terrorist Group
Emma Green
9:00 AM ET
Spencer Kornhaber
Jan 27, 2017
Culture
Share
Tweet
…
LinkedIn
Email
Print
Text Size
Two icons of the music-video format have returned this Friday with light-up headpieces and underground post-apocalypse vibes and pretty catchy music. Do not call Missy Elliott and Jamiroquai nostalgia acts—they’re offering colorful and imaginative escape to the future.
From the garbage-bag onesie of “The Rain (Supa Dupa Fly)” to the bee facial of “Work It” to the
Terminator
goop of “She’s a Bitch” to the boogying marionettes of 2015’s “WTF (Where They From),” Missy Elliott’s knack for memorable music has been equalled by her knack for insane images. Today brings not only a visual smorgasbord in the video for the new song “I’m Better,” but
also a trailer
for a forthcoming documentary about the rapper that confirms her televisual excellence hasn’t happened by accident. It opens with her saying, “It’s never just making a hot record—I can do that in my sleep. But visually I have to see what I’m going to do with that record when I perform it.”
The “I’m Better” video, aided by her longtime directorial collaborator Dave Meyers and the producer Lamb, features dancers suspended from the back as if they’re puppets, wearing glowing riot masks on their heads, and grooving in white workout gear like cultists doing aerobics. The industrial setting they’re in at the start of the clip turns out to have a liquid portal in the floor; everyone falls through, and suddenly it’s an underwater performance. The song is minimal, tense, and in step with the trap sound ruling hip hop right now. The dancing accentuates the uneasy mood: “I didn’t want them to hit every beat of the track,” Elliott
told
Fact
. “I wanted it to be art.” She raps that her man watches her like he watches
Scandal
, which is to say totally caught up—a relatable feeling for the viewer.
Less abstract but similarly heady is the new clip from the British funk act Jamiroquai. The band’s 1996 song “Virtual Insanity” made for one of the most famous music videos ever, with frontman Jay Kay hanging out in a room whose floors moved around him, a spectacle that scrambled the viewers’ expectations about gravity and home decor. That clip and others, such as the one for 1999’s “Canned Heat,” also demonstrated Kay really likes to wear things on his head.
For the new song “Automaton,” the advanced single to the band’s first album since 2010, Kay’s hat fetish remains, as does the interest in science fiction and things moving that aren’t supposed to move. The video opens with a mushroom cloud—
topical!
—and then introduces Kay wearing a prehensile, light-up headpiece. He explores human ruins, first underground and then above ground, and reports back his findings to some researcher-type. His cyborg-scout get-up is cool in a campy way, and it fits right in with the song’s sound: disco rock with heavy amounts of vocal manipulation à la Daft Punk.
Both Elliott’s and Jamiroquai’s videos might be seen as timely thanks to their
dystopian vibes
. But the creativity on display is exactly of the sort that both artists have shown throughout their careers. If there’s a takeaway message, it’s bedazzled onto one of Missy Elliott’s excellent outfits: “Save the Humans.”
Share
Tweet
Comments
Latest Video
Why Launching a War Against North Korea Would Be Immoral
Peter Beinart argues that preventive war is betrayal of American principles
Daniel Lombroso
and
Peter Beinart
Apr 28, 2017
About the Author
Spencer Kornhaber
is a staff writer at
The Atlantic
covering pop culture and music.
Twitter
Email
Most Popular
Presented by
Carlo Allegri / Reuters
Is Trump's Campaign Act Wearing Thin?
David A. Graham
The more his presidency stalls, the more he turns to his old tricks. But there are signs those worn tactics are losing their power.
Usually, the first 100 days of an administration are when a president starts to figure out the job and feel at home. Sometimes, he accomplishes much during that period; other opening stretches are more vexed, but by the end a commander in chief has begun to inhabit his office.
Something funny is happening with President Trump, though: Over the last week or two, he has instead appeared to return to many of the habits he developed on the campaign trail. That includes another campaign-style rally on Saturday, a sudden gusher of sit-down interviews, and an even more improvisatory approach than usual. These returns to habit correspond with, and seem to follow, the president’s ongoing inability to achieve much with the presidency.
Continue Reading
Tobias Schwarz / Reuters
Why the Phrase 'Late Capitalism' Is Suddenly Everywhere
Annie Lowrey
An investigation into a term that seems to perfectly capture the indignities and absurdities of the modern economy
A
job advertisement
celebrating sleep deprivation? That’s late capitalism. Free-wheeling Coachella outfits that somehow all look the same and cost
thousands of dollars
? Also late capitalism. Same goes for this wifi-connected $400 juicer that does no better than
human hands
, Pepsi’s advertisement
featuring Kendall Jenner
, United Airlines’
forcible removal of a seated passenger
who just wanted to go home, and the glorious debacle that was the Fyre Festival. The phrase—ominous, academic, despairing, sarcastic—has suddenly started showing up everywhere.
This publication has used “late capitalism” roughly two dozen times in recent years, describing everything from freakishly
oversized turkeys
to double-decker armrests for
steerage-class plane seats
.
The New Yorker
is likewise enamored of it, invoking it in discussions of Bernie Sanders and
fancy lettuces
, among other things. There is a wildly popular, year-old
Reddit community
devoted to it, as well as a
Facebook page
, a
Tumblr
, and a lively
Twitter hashtag
. Google search interest in its has more than
doubled
in the past year.
Continue Reading
Library of Congress
Why There Was a Civil War
Yoni Appelbaum
Some issues aren’t amenable to deal-making; some principles don’t lend themselves to compromise.
President Trump has peppered his first months in office with periodic announcements about the history of the nation he now leads, which he shares in the apparent presumption that others will be similarly amazed and astonished. In February, he marked Black History Month with a rambling speech, name-checking a variety of historical figures. “I am very proud now that we have a museum, National Mall, where people can learn about Reverend King, so many other things,” he said. “Frederick Douglass is an example of somebody who's done an amazing job that is being recognized more and more, I notice.”
“Great president,” he told the congressional campaign committee of the Party of Lincoln back in March. “Most people don’t even know he was a Republican, right? Does anyone know?”
Continue Reading
KCNA / Reuters
Who's Really in Charge of the United States Government?
David Frum
The administration’s flip-flopping on North Korea is only the latest incident to raise this question.
Official Washington, especially its Republican elements, is telling itself a comforting story about the Trump administration.
Senator John McCain summarized the story to CNN’s Jake Tapper on Sunday.
“Sometimes it’s important to watch what the president does rather than what he says.” The senator added: “[Trump is] surrounding himself with an outstanding national security team. I can’t guarantee to world leaders that he will always listen to them, but he has so far.” (You can watch the whole
interview here
.)
McCain’s caution about Trump’s future actions should be worrying enough. But even his assurances about the present ought to be deeply worrying.
The basis for McCain’s Sunday interview was the latest reversal in Trump foreign policy. It’s a bad and troubling story leading up to a supposedly happy ending—but in reality, the ending is not happy at all.
Continue Reading
How Two Mississippi College Students Fell in Love and Decided to Join a Terrorist Group
Emma Green
In three short months, Jaelyn Young and Muhammad Dakhlalla found themselves at the center of America’s debate over radicalization.
The day she left
to join the Islamic State, Jaelyn Young took a floral backpack with clothes, craft supplies, and a scrapbook. Muhammad Dakhlalla, whose friends call him Moe, packed a bar of soap, gray sweats, and a pack of Starburst minis. She was organized: Her wallet held bank cards and insurance cards, plus a Sonic receipt tucked inside. He loved video games: His only t-shirt featured the robots of
Portal
2. On that hot August day, they were headed to Turkey, on their way to Syria.
Listen to the audio version of this article:
Download the Audm app
for your iPhone to listen to more titles.
Moe, 22, had graduated from Mississippi State University in Starkville a few months earlier, in the spring of 2015, and had been accepted into a psychology master’s program there for the fall. He has a friendly, slightly dorky demeanor in conversation, ever the goofy baby brother of an expressive Muslim family. Jaelyn, just turned 20, was a sophomore in chemistry, working in a lab on nanoparticles. High-school friends describe the tiny Vicksburg native as a “spunky, smart robotics chick” from a strict black family, with a Navy veteran and police officer for a father and a school superintendent for a mother. The two started dating in November 2014; she converted just a few months later. By June, they had wed in an Islamic ceremony, although they never obtained a marriage license. Moe and Jaelyn were both academically talented, but neither planned to return to school. God willing, Jaelyn allegedly told their online recruiter, they would be overseas by summer’s end.
Continue Reading
Alex Brandon / AP
Trump's Peculiar Understanding of the Civil War
David A. Graham
The president’s admiration for deal-making and strong leadership lead him to suggest that Andrew Jackson could have stopped the Civil War.
When presidents play historian, it almost always says more about them than it does with history. In this respect, Donald Trump is just like his predecessors.
In an interview with Salena Zito for Sirius XM radio, Trump discussed the nastiness of the 2016 campaign. (Sirius released a clip; the full interview is to air Monday afternoon.) He was told that the 1828 race between John Quincy Adams and Andrew Jackson was the most similar, he said.
"Had Andrew Jackson been a little bit later, you wouldn’t have had the Civil War"
@realDonaldTrump
told
@SalenaZito
. Full intv at 2pE, Ch124
pic.twitter.com/d7PuRRm7Md
— SiriusXMPolitics (@SXMPolitics)
May 1, 2017
“I said, ‘When was Andrew Jackson?’ It was 1828, that’s a long time ago, that was Andrew Jackson,” Trump said, a sign that the history to follow would be somewhat shaky. Reminiscing about a visit to Tennessee in March, Trump continued:
Continue Reading
Hulu
The Handmaid's Tale
Treats Guilt as an Epidemic
Megan Garber
The Hulu show, like the book before it, is deeply concerned with matters of complicity—and it arrives in a culture that is deeply anxious about them, as well.
At the end of the first episode of
The Handmaid’s Tale
, the excellent show now streaming on Hulu, the handmaids of Gilead gather in a grove for a ceremony that goes by an ominous name: the Salvaging. The women file together, in twos, in their red robes, to a series of red pillows that have been laid out in neat lines on the ground. They kneel. From a stage that has been set for the occasion, Aunt Lydia, the woman who is by turns their captor and their mentor, informs them of the reason for the gathering. She summons a prisoner to the stage. The man, Aunt Lydia says, raped a handmaid. The girl had been pregnant. The baby was lost. “This disgusting creature has given us no choice,” she says, glowering at the convict. “Am I correct, girls?”
Continue Reading
Alessandro Bianchi / Reuters
Porn Star James Deen's Crisis of Conscience
Conor Friedersdorf
The most famous male adult film actor—and porn website proprietor—of his generation frets that his industry doesn’t protect children from exposure to hardcore content on the internet.
Boys who became teenagers in 1953, the year that Hugh Hefner founded
Playboy
,
and 40 years later in 1993, when I turned 13, were exposed to pornography in much the same way. A classmate pilfered a magazine from a father’s stash or an inattentive store clerk, secreted it away from adult eyes, and shared it with his peers. Most were fascinated and titillated by their first real glimpse at a naked woman. But in hindsight, the centerfold in the first
Playboy
I saw wasn’t so different from the swimsuit model spreads featured once a year in
Sports Illustrated
. As for sex, I didn’t see my first R-rated love scene for another couple of years. And more graphic fare, like what Cinemax aired late at night, was always scrambled on our cable box.
Continue Reading
Mike Stewart / AP
Two Major Credit Reporting Agencies Have Been Lying to Consumers
Gillian B. White
A CFPB investigation concluded that Transunion and Equifax deceived Americans about the reports they provided and the fees they charged.
In personal finance, practically everything can turn on one’s credit score. It’s both an indicator of one’s financial past, and the key to accessing necessities—without insane costs—in the future. But on Tuesday, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
announced
that two of the three major credit-reporting agencies responsible for doling out those scores—Equifax and Transunion—have been deceiving and taking advantage of Americans. The Bureau ordered the agencies to pay more than $23 million in fines and restitution.
In their investigation, the Bureau found that the two agencies had been misrepresenting the scores provided to consumers, telling them that the score reports they received were the same reports that lenders and businesses received, when, in fact, they were not. The investigation also found problems with the way the agencies advertised their products, using promotions that suggested that their credit reports were either free or cost only $1. According to the CFPB the agencies did not properly disclose that after a trial of seven to 30 days, individuals would be enrolled in a full-price subscription, which could total $16 or more per month. The Bureau also found Equifax to be in violation of the Fair Credit Reporting Act, which states that the agencies must provide one free report every 12 months made available at a
central site
. Before viewing their free report, consumers were forced to view advertisements for Equifax, which is prohibited by law.
Continue Reading
Keith Bedford / Reuters
Escaping Poverty Requires Almost 20 Years With Nearly Nothing Going Wrong
Gillian B. White
The MIT economist Peter Temin argues that economic inequality results in two distinct classes. And only one of them has any power.
A lot of factors have contributed to American inequality: slavery, economic policy, technological change, the power of lobbying, globalization, and so on. In their wake, what’s left?
That’s the question at the heart of a new book,
The Vanishing Middle Class: Prejudice and Power in a Dual Economy
, by Peter Temin, an economist from MIT. Temin argues that, following decades of growing inequality, America is now left with what is more or less a two-class system: One small, predominantly white upper class that wields a disproportionate share of money, power, and political influence and a much larger, minority-heavy (but still mostly white) lower class that is all too frequently subject to the first group’s whims.
Continue Reading
'I've Done Horrible Things for Dope'
Katherine Wells
A haunting documentary about a West Virginia town plagued by painkiller addiction
Watch Video
One Man's Fight to Bury His Wife With Dignity
Erica Moriarty
In a short film, a husband ends up in a legal battle over his wife’s final wishes to be buried in the front yard.
Watch Video
How Do You Know When You're in Love?
The Editors
"When you travel together and don't kill each other."
Watch Video
More Popular Stories
Show Comments
Home
Share
Tweet
Next story in
Culture
Subscribe
Get 10 issues a year and save 65% off the cover price.
State
Alabama
Alaska
Alberta
American Samoa
APO/FPO-Africa
APO/FPO-Canada
APO/FPO-Europe
APO/FPO-Middle East
APO/FPO-Americas
APO/FPO-Pacific
Arizona
Arkansas
British Columbia
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
District of Columbia
Florida
Georgia
Guam
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Manitoba
Marshall Islands
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Micronesia
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Brunswick
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
Newfoundland
Newfoundland-Labrador
North Carolina
North Dakota
Northern Mariana Isles
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ohio
Oklahoma
Ontario
Oregon
Palau
Pennsylvania
Prince Edward Island
Puerto Rico
Quebec
Quebec
Rhode Island
Saskatchewan
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virgin Islands
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming
Yukon Territories
Fraud Alert regarding The Atlantic
Newsletters
+
The Atlantic
The Atlantic
Daily
This Week
This Month
New Photo Galleries
Top Videos This Week
Politics & Policy Daily
CityLab
Today’s Top Stories
This Week's Most Popular Stories
I want to receive updates from partners and sponsors.
Follow
+
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Tumblr
Pinterest
RSS
App Store
About
+
Masthead
FAQ
Press
Jobs
Shop
Books
Emporium
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Advertise
Advertising Guidelines
Terms and Conditions
Manage Subscription
Responsible Disclosure
Site Map
Copyright © 2017 by The Atlantic Monthly Group. All Rights Reserved.
xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?
svg PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/1.1/DTD/svg11.dtd"
Close
BEGIN: Welcome Screens
Skip to article in
Skip Ad >
End welcome screen
Close
/DO NOT REMOVE/
End SiteCatalyst code version: H.23.6.
Omniture noscript counter
/DO NOT REMOVE/
Ads.
Media.net and GPT Script
Analytics, etc.
Begin comScore Tag
End comScore Tag
START Nielsen Online SiteCensus V6.0
COPYRIGHT 2012 Nielsen Online
END Nielsen Online SiteCensus V6.0
Google Analytics
End Google Analytics
Facebook Tracking Pixel
End Facebook Tracking Pixel
BlueConic Customer Data Platform
BEGIN Krux Control Tag
END Krux Controltag
Simplereach
Quantcast Tag
End Quantcast Tag
Load social buttons last, so we don't care if they hang
Twitter
2017-05-01T22:37:14.212473
PAGE_COMPLETED
